# Data and code for an article comparing federal and regional categories of specially protected natural territories in Russia

By Pavel Syomin (Habr.com), Julia Kiel and Valeriya Sinitsina (Ural State Law University).

The article is an unpublished draft.

The article is written using R and RMarkdown. The R source code is split into several files. Some of them are intended to be run only once, because they create templates, while the others process the data and provide for an “assembly line” which builds the article. **Article.Rmd** is the main file. It loads all necessary dependencies, so you can knit it and get the full article with a single click.

## A detailed description of files 

* **npa** — a folder with a raw normative data for assessment of regional categories;

* **.Rprofile** — a file that helps to load necessary libraries right when the project is open;

* **Article.Rmd** — the **main file** of the article;

* **Calculate_agreement_and_aggregate_grades.R** — a script which loads three tables with raw grades (see further), calculates Fleiss' kappa, aggregates three grades into a one grade and writes the result in a csv file. Required by Compare_cats.R;

* **Compare_Stishov_with_our_results.ods** — a table with a comparison of our results with results from M. S. Stishov and N. Dudley's book (Стишов М. С., Дадли Н. Охраняемые природные территории Российской Федерации и их категории. М.: WWF, 2018);

* **Compare_cats.R** — a script which performs the comparison and builds tables and a plot used in the article, i. e. the main script. “Cats” means categories, not cats :-)

* **Compare_with_Stishov.R** — a helper script used to prepare a *Compare_Stishov_with_our_results.ods* table. In fact, it just searches for categories' names in a data frame with our results;

* **Comparison_table_raw_{suffix}.ods** — 
the results of an assessment made by the three co-authors. {suffix} stands for the name of the author: p — **P**avel S., j — **J**ulia K., l — Va**l**eriya S.;

* **Create_odt_for_reference_styles.Rmd** — an RMarkdown document used to create ad ODT file by Pandoc and then customize some styles. The generated and customized file is saved as *reference-styles.odt* (see further);

* **Fed_cats_tasks_table.R** — a script to build a data frame of tasks of federal categories;

* **Misc.R** — parts of the code cut from Compare_cats.R, which we didn't want to delete totally. If one runs this file, he will probably see something interesting, but in general, this file is not very useful, and the analysis here wasn't included in the final version of the article;

* **Prepare_comparison_table.R** — a helper script which was used to generate the ODS to fill in with grades;

* **Prepare_list_of_regional_cats_with_levels.R** — load a list of regional categories with their levels;

* **Readme.md** — this readme;

* **Table_of_tasks_of_federal_categories.ods** — a short version of table, which is loaded in the *Article.Rmd* and displayed as a part of “Materials and Methods”;

* **jrp.csl** — a citation style file for Journal of Russian Law (a modified version of GOST R 7.05-2008 CSL);

* **rcats_references.bib** — bibliography in BibTeX;

* **reference-styles.odt** — an ODT with reference styles to knit the article.

## The Knitting process

When a user opens *Article.Rmd* and clicks “Knit” button, the *Compare_cats.R* is sourced. *Compare_cats.R* itself sources three files: *Calculate_agreement_and_aggregate_grades.R*, *Fed_cats_tasks_table.R*, and *Prepare_list_of_regional_cats_with_levels.R*. The first of these files loads three ODS tables with raw by-objective grades of regional categories *(Comparison_table_raw_{suffix})*, does necessary aggregations and writes the result to *Comparison_table_raw.csv* (this is a temporary file autumatically generated by the script, so it's not included in this repository). The second file prepares a data frame with by-objective grades of federal categories. The third file prepares a data frame with regional categories' names and levels. After these scripts are executed, the rest of *Compare_cats.R* is processed, all comparison is made and data frames with the results of the comparison and a plot is created. Also, *Compare_cats.R* saves a *Comparison_results.csv* file with similariry indices and the most similar federal categories for each regional category. When *Compare_cats.R* is processed, the *Article.Rmd* is knit to *Article.odt*, which is an output file.